User Defined Functions allow you
to extend the capabilities of
CrateDB by adding reusable
functions written in JavaScript.
In this video, I'll demonstrate
how to use a user defined
function to solve an issue with
our Chicago Beach Weather
Stations data set.
Here are some example rows from
a Chicago Beach weather data
table.
What's unusual about this data
is that temperatures are in
degrees Celsius.
In the United States, it's more
common to express temperatures
as degrees Fahrenheit.
Let's solve this by adding a
user defined function that takes
a Celsius value and converts it
to Fahrenheit.
It's a JavaScript function that
converts Celsius to Fahrenheit.
It uses a standard formula to do
this, then manipulates the
result to return a floating
point number with two decimal
places.
When called with the input 22.5,
it returns 72.5 which is the
equivalent temperature in
Fahrenheit.
This is the same function
wrapped up in a CrateDB CREATE
FUNCTION SQL statement.
Here we're specifying that the
function expects a double
precision value from CrateDB
as its only parameter and that
it returns a double precision
value.
The LANGUAGE JAVASCRIPT clause
tells CrateDB to expect the
source code for this function to
be in JavaScript.
At the moment only JavaScript is
supported when writing user
defined functions.
Let's run the CREATE statement,
adding the function to
CrateDB.
Now we can test it with a simple
SELECT statement.
We'll select c_to_f the function
name, pass in 22.5 as a Celsius
value and expect to get a
Fahrenheit value back.
As we see here, the Fahrenheit
value for 22.5 Celsius is 72.5
as a double.
Next, I'll use our user defined
function to produce a column in
a result set.
Here we're calling the function
and renaming the value returned
as airtemp_f, or air
temperature in Fahrenheit.
When we run this query, we can
see the results here.
So airtemp on the left is the
original Celsius value.
airtemp_f on the right has been
calculated to be the equivalent
Fahrenheit value.
One important thing to bear in
mind when writing user defined
functions is that they must be
deterministic.
What do we mean by
deterministic?
When given the same inputs, your
function must always produce the
same output.
This is necessary as CrateDB
may cache the output of your
function for performance
reasons.
In this video you learnt what
user defined functions are in
CrateDB, how to create one and
how to use it in a SQL
statement.
For more information about user
defined functions, check out the
CrateDB documentation.